# Question Set 9 - Fundamentals of Visual Computing
### Question 1
For a greyscale image that is $w$ pixels wide and $h$ pixels high, what is the index in memory of the pixel at column x, row y? Assume the pixels are stored row by row.

#### Answer 1:
$y\times w + x$

#### *[This question was from 2. Images & Colours]*
<hr>

### Question 2
How would you carry out a parallel/orthographic projection with a moved camera? Let $\bold{M}$ be the matrix that transforms points from the world reference frame to the camera's reference frame, and let $\bold{p}$ be the vector representing the point to be projected.

#### Answer 2:
1. Transform the object from the camera frame into the world frame, i.e. $\bold{q}=\bold{M}^{-1}\bold{p}$.
2. Project, i.e. $\bold{q^{\prime}}=\bold{K}_{parallel}\,\bold{q}$.

#### *[This question was from 10. Projection]*
<hr>

### Question 3
How can you convert a projected polygon into pixels?

#### Answer 3:
Scan conversion algorithm:
- Consider each scanline, one by one.
- Decide which pixels are 'in' and 'out' by switching between them at boundary crossings.

#### *[This question was from 11. Hidden Surface Removal]*
<hr>

### Question 4
What is the formula for the Discrete Fourier Transform (DFT)?

#### Answer 4:
$$
F[k]=\sum_{n=0}^{N-1}{f[n]e^{-2\pi i\frac{kn}{N}}}\,\,\,\, \mathrm{for}\,k=0,1,\cdots,N-1
$$

#### *[This question was from 6. Properties & Applications of the Fourier Transform]*
<hr>

### Question 5
What is the affine transform to scale a point by factor $a$ in the $x$-direction and $b$ in the $y$-direction?

#### Answer 5:
$M=\begin{bmatrix}
a&0\\
0&b\\
\end{bmatrix}$

#### *[This question was from 8. Rendering: Action]*
<hr>

### Question 6
What is a matrix?

#### Answer 6:
A rectangular array of numbers.

#### *[This question was from Maths Recap]*
<hr>

### Question 7
What are the three most common types of model, and briefly what is each?

#### Answer 7:
- **Solid**: implicit representation (used in CAD)
- **Voxel**: explicit representation (used in medical imaging/robotics)
- **Surface**: parametric representation (used in games/films)

#### *[This question was from 14. Geomtric Modelling]*
<hr>

### Question 8
What does a lens do?

#### Answer 8:
It focuses parallel light onto a single focal point.

#### *[This question was from 3. Imaging & Display]*
<hr>

### Question 9
What is meant by *hidden surface removal*?

#### Answer 9:
Not depicting those parts of a scene that are not visible.

#### *[This question was from 11. Hidden Surface Removal]*
<hr>

### Question 10
Is addition of matrices commutative? (i.e. $\bold{A} + \bold{B} = \bold{B} + \bold{A}$)

#### Answer 10:
Yes

#### *[This question was from Maths Recap]*
<hr>

### Question 11
What is dilation? And what is the formula?

#### Answer 11:
Increases the width of bright objects.
$$
(I\oplus B)(x,y) = \max_{(i,j)\in B}I(x-i, y-j)$$

#### *[This question was from 4. Image Filtering]*
<hr>

### Question 12
What is shot noise?

#### Answer 12:
Since photons hit sensor randomly, this is inevitable.

#### *[This question was from 3. Imaging & Display]*
<hr>

### Question 13
For a complex number $z=a+bi\in\mathbb{C}$, what are the real and imaginary parts?

#### Answer 13:
$\mathrm{Re}(z) = a\in\mathbb{R}$<br>
$\mathrm{Im}(z) = b\in\mathbb{R}$

#### *[This question was from 5. The Fourier Transform]*
<hr>

### Question 14
How do LCDs achieve colour?

#### Answer 14:
They have small RGB filters over the pixels to provide three colours. <br>Projectors use 3LCD panels to mix the light using mirrors and lens.

#### *[This question was from 3. Imaging & Display]*
<hr>

### Question 15
What do we use to reconstruct the original continuous signal from samples?

#### Answer 15:
Convolution.

#### *[This question was from 7. Sampling Theory]*
<hr>

### Question 16
What is the explicit representation of a line in 2D?

#### Answer 16:
$x_2=mx_1+c$

#### *[This question was from 15. 2D curves]*
<hr>

### Question 17
How do CCD sensors differ from CMOS sensors?

#### Answer 17:
**CCD**: serial devices where pixels are read out one at a time.<br>
**CMOS**: each pixel contains an amplifier, so read-out can be faster.

#### *[This question was from 3. Imaging & Display]*
<hr>

### Question 18
What is the affine transform of a shear of factor $a$ in the $x$-direction and $b$ in the $y$-direction?

#### Answer 18:
$M=\begin{bmatrix}
1&a\\
b&1\\
\end{bmatrix}$

#### *[This question was from 8. Rendering: Action]*
<hr>

### Question 19
What is the name of the model that represents a reflection with specular incident and diffuse reflected light?

#### Answer 19:
Lambertian reflection model

#### *[This question was from 12. Lighting]*
<hr>

### Question 20
What is a subdivision surface and what are the benefits of using subdivision surfaces?

#### Answer 20:
A subdivision surface is generated by repeatedly applying a subdivision operator onto the control polygon. These have guaranteed continuity and a flexible level of detail.

#### *[This question was from 17. Surfaces & Volumes]*
<hr>

